<?php
  header("Vary: Accept");
  if ( (array_key_exists("HTTP_ACCEPT", $_SERVER) &&
        stristr($_SERVER["HTTP_ACCEPT"], "application/xhtml+xml"))
       ||
       (array_key_exists("HTTP_USER_AGENT", $_SERVER) &&
        stristr($_SERVER["HTTP_USER_AGENT"], "W3C_Validator"))
     )
  {
    header("Content-type: application/xhtml+xml");
    header("Last-Modified: " . date('r',filemtime($_SERVER['SCRIPT_FILENAME'])));
    print("<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"utf-8\"?>\n");
  }
  else
  {
    header("Content-type: text/html; charset=utf-8");
  }
 ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">

  <head>
    <title>IEEE-754 Analysis</title>
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/analyzer.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="scripts/numeric_value.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="scripts/analyzer.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>IEEE-754 Analyzer</h1>
    <div class="analyzer">
      <fieldset><legend>Input Format</legend>
        <input type="radio" name="input-format" value="auto" id="force-auto" checked="checked" />
        <label for="force-auto">auto</label>
        
        <input type="radio" name="input-format" value="decimal" id="force-decimal" />
        <label for="force-decimal">decimal</label>
        
        <input type="radio" name="input-format" value="binary" id="force-binary" />
        <label for="force-binary">binary</label>
        
        <input type="radio" name="input-format" value="hexadecimal" id="force-hexadecimal" />
        <label for="force-hexadecimal">hexadecimal</label>
      </fieldset>
      <label for="value-entered">Enter value: </label><input type="text" id="value-entered" />
      Syntax Entered: <span id="syntax_msg">none</span>
      <div id="result">

        <p>Normalized decimal value: <span id="decimal_value">0</span></p>
        <p>Normalized binary value: <span id="binary_value">0</span></p>
      </div>
    </div>
    <div>
    	<button id="add-an-analyzer">Add An Analyzer</button>
    </div>
    <h2>Instructions</h2>
    <div>
      <p id='need-js'>You must have JavaScript enabled to do anything with this web page.</p>
      <p>
      	This page lets you examine the relationships among binary and decimal numbers and three
        number formats described by the IEEE-754-2008 floating-point standard. You can enter a numeric value in
        any one of five formats, and see all five corresponding values, along with an analyses of the binary
        structure of the floating-point formats.
      </p>
      <p>
      	You can create multiple analyzers so you can compare multiple values at the same time.
      </p>
      <h3>Input Formats</h3>
      <ul>
      	<li>
        	<h5>Auto</h5>
          <p>
          	If the auto option is checked, you can enter a value in any of the formats listed below. If you enter a
            valid decimal number, it will be treated as such even though it might also be a valid binary or
            hexadecimal number. For example, 10101010 could be the decimal number 10,101,010; the
            the binary number 170; or it could be a 32-bit hexadecimal value. In ambiguous cases like this, use
            the radio buttons to force the value to be interpreted using the format you want.
          </p>
        </li>
        <li>
        	<h5>Decimal</h5>
          <p>
          	You can enter decimal numbers as whole numbers (123), decimal fractions (123.456), or mixed numbers
            (1 7/8). The number may be signed, and you can use exponential notation, even for the parts of mixed
            numbers. (1.23e2 or 1e3 1e2/7e1 for example; corresponding to 123 and 1000 100/70, repsectively)
          </p>
        </li>
        <li>
        	<h5>Binary</h5>
          <p>
          	Binary numbers may be signed whole numbers or binary fractions with an optional exponent. Write the
            exponent in decimal, but it will be base 2. (101.1e-2 is the same as 1.011, for example.)
          </p>
        </li>
        <li>
        	<h5>Hexadecimal</h5>
          <p>
          	This analyzer recognizes three IEEE-754-2008 standard floating-point formats: binary32, commonly called
            single-precision; binary64, commonly called double-precision; and binary128. Enter exactly 8, 16, or 32
            hexadecimal digits to enter a value in one of these formats.
          </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </div>
    <div>
      Last&nbsp;updated&nbsp;<?php echo date("Y-m-d", filemtime($_SERVER['SCRIPT_FILENAME'])); ?>
      <a href="http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=referer">XHTML</a>
      <a href="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/check/referer">CSS</a>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>

